README: Flesh out and add a simple description (#17)
illumos/ipd: README.md

# illumos Project Discussion

IPDs are a shrink-to-fit description of larger scale (in either code size or
impact) project wishing to make changes to illumos.  They should describe the
what and the why and give people the opportunity to comment on both.

> An IPD is at its heart, just a README.md in a numbered directory in this

Reviewer: I guess I'm the only one who did an .adoc, haha. I'd say we should allow either. And if that's the case maybe rephrase this like "An IPD consists of either a markdown or asciidoc README file in a numbered directory".

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome.  A good rule of thumb as to whether you _should_

> have an IPD is whether you are making a change with high impact to other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
write an IPD is whether you are making a change with high impact to other
```

developers or users (introducing or removing a supported platform, doing
something with non-obvious compatibility constraints), or engaging in a
long-term project that will likely integrate in pieces, to provide the overall
picture.

> For your first contribution, you might want to just submit a pull request to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For your first contribution, you should submit a pull request to
```

this repository.  Going forward if this is a thing that you will do again,

> we'll probably give you write access to this repository so you can just add

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we'll probably give you write access to this repository so you can add
```

your new IPDs as they come up.

## Format

An IPD has a short header block indicating authorship (that's you),
sponsorship (we'll get to that), and state.

### States

#### predraft

You've started writing your IPD and you want to share it narrowly, or even

> just to reserve your a number in this repository.  You're _predraft_, maybe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
just to reserve a number in this repository.  You're _predraft_, maybe
```

you only have a title and a short paragraph right now, that's fine.

#### draft

You've finished writing and explaining, and now you're going to send your IPD
to the [developer mailing list](mailto:developer@lists.illumos.org), this is a
draft, you're going to receive feedback so it's not complete, but it's close.

#### published

One or more people from the [illumos core
team](https://illumos.org/docs/about/leadership/) have agreed that what you've
described is a good thing, and that we should do it.  Your IPD is done and
published (though is not immutable! If you find more information would be
useful later, please add it!)

### Sponsorship

"Sponsor" is a weird word here, it's just the person or people on the illumos

> core team who were ok with your IPD.  Don't worry about it.

Reviewer: Rich, first I want to be clear I'm happy someone took the time to flesh out the IPD process a bit. But I can't help but read this and wonder why we even have sponsorship if it's something no one should worry about and it's "weird"? If we can't explain what it is to the general public, maybe we don't need it?

It seems like the sponsor is the illumos core member who agreed the IPD should be moved to the published state? If so that seems easy enough to explain.
